CSCA20 Project Report: Fall 2019

You will submit a copy of this report on Quercus each week between now and the end of the project. Each team member will need to submit a copy, so that we can go back and see what you've done over time. Your project may (and probably will) change as you progress, and that's okay, but we want to be able to track that progression.

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Zoe 
Last Name: Griffith
Student Number: 1004199413
UofT E-mail Address: zoe.griffith@mail.utoronto.ca


Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Mei 
Last Name: Kanda
Student Number: 1005749585
UofT E-mail Address: may.kanda@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member C (Optional)
-------------
First Name: Yi
Last Name: Liu
Student Number: 1005865100
UofT E-mail Address: aileenyi.liu@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member D (Optional)
-------------
First Name: Jane 
Last Name: Yip
Student Number: 1006079217
UofT E-mail Address: wyjane.yip@mail.utoronto.ca


Project Plan
--------

Project Title: Text Adventure Game

Provide a one paragraph description of your project:

The project we plan to create is an adventure game that returns a response to certain input using dictionary to predict possible input, or we can provide text options such as multiple choice. Also, making certain amount of wrong choice decreases lives of character; for instance if you have three lives and make a wrong choice, you have two chances to restart. The wrong option you choose is deleted from choices at the second or more attempt. 

What will you have done before you arrive at your tutorial next week?

	- Choose either scratch or python 
	- make outline for steps (input/output) 
	- make a timeline 
	- start writing basic, structure code 

What will you have done before you leave your tutorial next week?

	- make notes/layouts for the code
	- write the foundational code with explanations for following steps 

What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?

	- switch a tool (python to scratch for example) 
	- complete work at home 
	- simplify input/outputs (ie decrease number of multiple choice and number of paths) 


Weekly Reports
--------------
<In this space, provide a report each week of what worked and what didn't, and what (if any) changes were made to your proposal)>


Week One: This week, we created a timeline for the project and how we work on it together. We figured out the lab when we can work together, therefore each member can make sure what the team currently working on. However, the lab time is not enough time to complete the project and the usual python is hard to tell where each member edit on the code outside of the lab, thus we decided to use interactive python. Also, since a number of  choices and stages are matter in the text adventure game, we have decided that the game is about a simple story like a fairy tale. Also, we have to update a file whenever the player makes a wrong choice, we have decided that we will use python. Before the next lab, we had planned to create a detail storyline with options and start writing a code (at least for one stage with proper input and output).


Week Two: This week we decided to create our project with Python rather than Scratch. We came to the tutorial with a .py file with a commented outline for the broken down steps of what we planned to implement with our text adventure game (live tracker, functions for stages of the game with input and if statements to produce output, the global code) as well as a basic function/code for a stage (input with A/B/C/D options - not free type as we discussed as a potential feature, if statements, how lives would be removed) to expand on in tutorial. We experimented with using dictionaries to allow for players to type the input freely rather than choose from the options. However, after a couple of attempts it became clear to us that this would increase the scope of our project too much for the timeframe we have available to us with our other courses taken into consideration and was a little out of our reach at this stage in our experience and knowledge of Python. Instead, we discussed with our TAs how to optimize and improve the base code we had already created (for example, instead of different functions for each "stage" or level of our game, creating one base function and using dictionaries to sub in the prompt and answer information) and implemented those changes. In order to have our project finished for demonstration in our next tutorial we will be filling our level dictionaries with the prompt and answer texts, coding for the end of the game (ie. giving the option to play again or not, messages for when the game is lost because of a lack of lives and for when the player successfully makes it to the end of the game), and finally carrying out a number of different test cases to make sure there are no bugs.

Week Three: During the third week of starting the project we have accomplished to finish the entire project including polishing up the logic contained in the story and fixing the actual codes in python. We have set up multiple variables and finished the proper dictionary that we have decided to use. As toward the end of the week, we did most of the fix ups of the code itself including finding bugs and correct algorithm. 


References
----------
<In this space clearly indicate all external sources used in this project. If you used anyone else's code (from previous A20 projects or other sources) clearly indicate what you used and where you found it. Usage of ANY material not credited in this space will be considered plagiarism. It is absolutely OK and expected to update this section as you progress in the project.

Make sure to document what you added on top of the existing work, especially if you work with a previous project. What is it that YOU added?>

We were originally inspired by the game Zork (http://zorkonline.net) but ultimately created a more simplified text adventure game with options rather than free input. 


Repo & Video
------------
<At the end of the project, provide links to your code repository (or scratch page) and presentation video (and passwords if not public)>

Project Code Link: https://github.com/zoedg/CSCA20Project
Project Video Link: https://utoronto-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/may_kanda_mail_utoronto_ca/EUxobJZrOwpHrpPC4Jb9GZIBusLmwOjs9QhYEyEs1M_iLA?e=iB2tr9 